Leo Chen: Hey Anya, thanks for joining. I wanted to sync up on the sales data before you dive deep into the forecasting model.
Dr. Anya Sharma: Hey Leo. Yeah, perfect timing. I've just started my initial EDA, and I have a few questions.
Leo Chen: Great. Fire away. The data is coming directly from the production transactional database, aggregated daily by the new ETL job I set up.
Dr. Anya Sharma: Okay, so it's a daily grain. Are we including weekends and holidays in the aggregate?
Leo Chen: Yep, it's a straight daily aggregation of total sales value. The timestamp is for the end of the day, UTC.
Dr. Anya Sharma: Got it. Okay, first thing I noticed is some missing data points, specifically for the weekend of May 18th and 19th. The whole two days are just... gone from the series.
Leo Chen: Ah, right. I remember seeing a PagerDuty alert about that. There was a pipeline failure that weekend. The backfill job was supposed to run, but it might have failed too. I'll check the Airflow logs.
Dr. Anya Sharma: Okay, thanks. For now, I can probably impute it using the prior week's average or something similar, but a clean backfill would be ideal. It really messes with the weekly seasonality component in the model.
Leo Chen: Understood. I'll prioritize that fix.
Dr. Anya Sharma: The other thing is a few massive spikes in sales. Like, orders of magnitude higher than the surrounding days. For example, April 22nd. Was there a massive flash sale or is this a data quality issue? It's throwing off my summary statistics completely.
Leo Chen: April 22nd... let me think. That doesn't align with our usual quarterly promotions. It could be a B2B bulk order that got logged through the standard channel instead of the enterprise one. That happens sometimes when a client uses a corporate card on the main site.
Dr. Anya Sharma: Hmm, that's tricky. If it's a legitimate but rare event, I don't want to just clip it as an outlier. It contains information. But if it's a recurring issue, it'll wreck the assumptions of most time series models like ARIMA or even Prophet.
Leo Chen: I can try to trace the source of those specific transactions. If they're from a single corporate account or have an unusually high number of items, we could flag them. We can add a binary 'is_bulk_order' feature to the daily aggregate.
Dr. Anya Sharma: Oh, that would be fantastic. A feature like that is much better than me trying to guess the outlier threshold. That's a clean way to handle it as an exogenous variable.
Leo Chen: No problem. I'll see what I can dig up. Might take a bit to join with customer data, but it's doable.
Dr. Anya Sharma: That's fine, no rush. Last thing, and this is more of a statistical observation. Looking at the data from the last two years, it seems like the baseline sales volume and the variance both increased significantly starting around six months ago, around last November. Did we launch in a new region or change how we record sales?
Leo Chen: November... Ah, yes! That's when we migrated from the old legacy payment processor to the new platform. The old system was only capturing online credit card sales, but the new one aggregates everything—PayPal, Apple Pay, even the small number of manually invoiced orders. The data source is fundamentally richer now.
Dr. Anya Sharma: Okay, that explains it completely. It's a classic structural break in the time series. I can't just feed the whole two years of data into one model; it violates the stationarity assumption that the statistical properties are consistent over time.
Dr. Anya Sharma: I'll probably have to either use only the last six months of data for training, or model the two periods separately. Or maybe use the change point as a feature in a more complex model, but that's for a later version.
Leo Chen: Using only the last six months seems safer, right? The old data isn't really representative of the current business process. Garbage in, garbage out, as they say.
Dr. Anya Sharma: I'm hesitant to throw away a year and a half of data entirely. It holds valuable information about yearly seasonality, even if the scale and baseline are different. For example, the Black Friday sales patterns will still be there, just at a different level.
Dr. Anya Sharma: I might try normalizing the two periods separately before concatenating them, or use the old data to inform priors on the seasonality components. But for the first pass, you're right, I'll build a baseline model just on the recent, cleaner data.
Leo Chen: Okay, that makes sense. You're the expert on the modeling side, so I'll trust your judgment.
Leo Chen: So, to recap my action items: One, investigate and fix the backfill for May 18-19 in the `sales_daily` table.
Leo Chen: Two, trace those sales spikes from April and see if I can create an `is_bulk_order` flag for you. Is that everything on my end?
Dr. Anya Sharma: Yes, that covers it. That will give me a much better foundation to work from. My plan is to start cleaning and do the EDA on the post-migration data while you work on that. I'll ignore the pre-November data for now.
Dr. Anya Sharma: I'll probably have a baseline Prophet model ready for review by, say, end of day Friday. It won't be perfect, but it'll give us a performance benchmark.
Leo Chen: Sounds great. I should have an update for you on the backfill and the bulk orders by tomorrow afternoon. Just ping me on Slack if anything else comes up.
Dr. Anya Sharma: Will do. Thanks a lot for your help, Leo. This was super productive. It's much better to sort this out now than after the model is built.
Leo Chen: Absolutely. Measure twice, cut once. Talk to you soon, Anya.
Dr. Anya Sharma: You too, bye.